SetUp Environment
------------------

Java  --> For Programming language
Eclipse --> For IDE
Maven --> For Build tool Java projects 
TestNG  --> For Execution
Rest Assured Dependencies   --> For API Automation


What is RestAssured?
--------------------
	Java-based library used for testing RESTful APIs.
	Easy to write readable and maintainable test scripts for API automation.

	RestAssured  --> Java
	RestSharp  --> C#
	Pyrest --> Python
	
Why RestAssured preferred for API Automation?
---------------------------------------------
	1.Open Source
	2.Inbuilt Assertions (Hamcrest)
	3.Easy to code
	4.Designed Specifically for REST API Testing
	5.Easy Integration With Java Testing Frameworks (Junit, TestNG, Cucumber)
	6.Given–When–Then BDD style improves readability and maintainability
		Keywords used in BDD:
		---------------------

			given()
				Set Cookies , add authentication, add parameters , set headers info , end points

			when()
				get , post , put , delete
						+
				Request body		
				
			then()
				Assertions,validate status code, extract response, extract headers, cookies & response body
				
Limitations of postman overcome by RestAssured:
-----------------------------------------------
	Combining Selenium + RestAssured Library UI+API automation
	Rich in reporting 
	Parallel execution supports
	
given()   → setup request
when()    → send request
then()    → validate response

Dependencies
-------------

1. rest-assured
2. testng
json-schema-validation
json-path
xml-path

java-hamcrest
hamcrest-core
hamcrest-library
 
 RestAssured.baseURI --> is a global configuration variable in Rest Assured used to define the base URL (domain) of your API.
						It helps you avoid repeating the same base URL in every request.
						
RequestSpecification --> is an interface used to define and store all details of an API request before it is sent.		
						RequestSpecification = Blueprint of your API request
						It helps you build, reuse, and manage request configurations like:
							Base URI
							Headers
							Query parameters
							Path parameters
							Request body
							Authentication
						 given() returns a RequestSpecification object
Response --> is an interface/class that stores the API response received from the server after sending a request.
			 Response = Result returned by API (output)
			 It is used to:
				Capture the API response
				Read response data (body, status, headers)
				Perform validations
				Extract values (for API chaining)
 Header --> refers to a part of the HTTP request or response that carries the additonal information about the request or response.
		    Header = Extra details about the API request/response
			Headers are key-value pairs included in the HTTP request/response  and serve various purpose such as
				providing metadata, authentication and controlling API behaviour.
			Headers plays a crucial role in enabling communication between clients and servers.
			
			
Authentication --> It checks whether the user/client is valid.
					Authentication = Verifying who you are
					Ex:- Username & Password,API Key,Bearer Token (JWT),OAuth
					
					Various Authentication mechanism:
						1. Basic Authentication -  Sends username + password (Base64 encoded) in header
												   Simple but less secure
												   
													given()
														.auth().basic("user", "pass")

												   
						2. Digest Authentication - Uses hash instead of plain password
													More secure than Basic
													
													given()
														.auth().digest("user", "pass")
													
						3. Preemptive Authentication - Proactively Sends credentials without waiting for server challenge
													   Faster than normal Basic
													   
													   
													   given()
														.auth().preemptive().basic("user", "pass")
														
						4. Bearer Token Authentication - It is an access token  sent in the authorization header to authenticate API requests, instead
															of sending credentials repeatedly.
														Bearer Token = Access token used to authenticate API requests

															After login, the server gives you a token (string value)
															You send this token in every request
															Server verifies the token instead of username/password
															
															
														given()
															.header("Authorization", "Bearer " + token)
								OAuth 2.0 generates the Bearer token, and that Bearer token is used to access APIs.
								
						5. OAuth 2.0 -->  is an authorization framework that allows a client (application) to access resources on behalf of a user  using an access token, without sharing the user’s credentials.
										Involves obtaining access token to access the protected resources
						              OAuth 2.0 = Secure way to get and use access tokens instead of username/password.
									  More Widely used.
									  
						6. API key Authentication: Invloves sending an API key in the request header/ Query Parameters
												API Key Authentication = A method where a unique key is used to identify and authenticate a client making API requests
														The server gives you a unique API key
														You send this key with every request
														Server validates the key and allows access
						
						
						
Authorization --> It checks permissions after authentication
					Authorization = Verifying what you are allowed to do
					Ex:- Admin → can create/delete users
						Normal User → can only view data
						Read / Write / Execute access	
						
POJO class :(Plain Old Java Object):
----------------------------
POJO class is a simple java class that encapsulates fields (variables ),getters, setters, and sometimes constructors.
Contains only data , without business logic or framework specific annotations.

	Characteristics:
		1. No dependency on frameworks 
		2. Uses private variables + public getters/setters
		3. Easy to reuse and maintain
		
	Uses of POJO in Rest Assured:
	----------------------------
	POJO in Rest Assured is used to serialize Java objects into JSON for request bodies and deserialize JSON responses into Java objects, making API automation clean, reusable, and type-safe.
		1. Request Body( Serialization)  --> Instead of writing JSON manually, we create a POJO object.
											POJO object → converted to JSON automatically  (Serialization)
		
		2. Response Body (Deserialization) --> Convert API JSON response → POJO object.
												JSON → POJO (Deserialization)
												
												
Serialization & Deserialization:
-------------------------------
	It is an important concept in the context of data transmission ,storage, and communication between different systems.
	In the context of rest assured , these concepts asre crucial for handling data in a format that can be easily sent over the network and converted back into usable object.
	
	Purpose:
		1. Avoid manual JSON handling
		2. Type safety - Access response fields using object methods
		3. Reusability
		4. Easy maintenance 
	
	
	Serialization:
	-------------
		Serialization is the process of converting a Java object to  JSON/XML.
		You send a Java object → Rest Assured converts it into JSON automatically.
		
	Deserialization:
	-------------
		Deserialization is the process of converting  JSON to  Java object(POJO).
		You receive JSON response  → map it into Java class.

Path Parameters:




Query Parameters:
----------------
1. What are Query Parameters?
	In endponit after '?' 
2. Why Query Parameters?
	 To filter the request 
3. Query parameters is not common for all application , it differs	 

Chaining of Request:
-------------------
Based on one API response , another API will execute in a chain action


Hamcrest is a library provides methods to validate/assert values
Matchers is a class inside Hamcrest

assertThat()
-------------

In Rest Assured, assertThat() is used in the validation step of a request to start attaching assertions on the response.


Rest Assured’s chained assertThat() (fluent API):
	(*) Use Rest Assured’s .then().assertThat() when you’re validating directly on the response in the fluent call.
	
Hamcrest’s standalone assertThat(actual, matcher):	
	(*) This is not from Rest Assured; it’s from Hamcrest 
	(*) Use Hamcrest’s assertThat(actual, matcher) when you extract data first (with .extract().path(...), .as(...), etc.) and then assert separately.
	
	
Matchers.hasItem("Lausdsdsdanne"))  --> provides list of values

JSON Scheme:

	JSON Schema is a standard format used to define the structure, rules, and validation of JSON data.
	It acts like a blueprint or contract for your JSON — telling:cd
		What fields are allowed
		What data types they should be
		Which fields are mandatory
		What validations should apply